static/library/consortium_bloculus/operations_businesscase/latest/source/executivesummary.rst, before:

Executive Summary 
====================
  
Bloculus is a combination of two words which best describe this new protocol. 
'Bloc' is a referece to Blockchain technology, which is presumed to need no explination.   
'Loculus' refers to three seperate subjects which coincidentally all relate to this protocol.
'Loculus' is a small satchel that was carried by Roman soldiers, a "little place" in terms of architectural practices and a compartment within an organ or part of an organism e.g. fungus.
  
  
Deslinde
~~~~~~~~~~

Property Registration Law (No. 108-05) involving the Deslinde Process. Prior to the enactment of this law, almost all real estate sales were made without a plan approved by the State (“boundary”) because this process took years to complete. However, the new law limits sales, purchases, mortgages, and formation of condominiums on properties that have not been demarcated by putting this requirement that the property is demarcated (deslinde) as the paramount requirement. `Learn More <https://www.selectcaribbean.com/deslinde-process/>`__


Easement
~~~~~~~~~~~~

An easement is a legal right benefiting property or a piece of land (known as the dominant land) that is enjoyed over another piece of land owned by somebody else (servient land). ... It is a right over land belonging to someone else, but it is not a right to possession or even joint use of the land. `Learn More <https://bateswells.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/bwb-pu-easements-oct13-pdf.pdf>`__


Annexures
~~~~~~~~~~~~

A suppliment or appendix to a written document. An annexure is an addition to something, often to a document. When used generally to simply mean something added, annexure is interchangeable with annex. More commonly used in Britain and India, where it often specifically refers to an addition to an official document.

Commit message:

new sitemap and small changes - see changelog

static/library/consortium_bloculus/operations_businesscase/latest/source/executivesummary.rst, after:

Executive Summary 
====================
  
Bloculus is a combination of two words that best describe this new protocol. 
'Bloc' is a referece to Blockchain technology, whereas 'Loculus' is an architectural term used to describe a "little place" and similarly the plural of the biological term 'Locule', which describes compartmentalisation within an organism.  
This protocol has been developed by the DATRO Consortium as part of a larger plan to deploy the worlds first (for-profit) free internet service.   

  
Deslinde
~~~~~~~~~~

Property Registration Law (No. 108-05) involving the Deslinde Process. Prior to the enactment of this law, almost all real estate sales were made without a plan approved by the State (“boundary”) because this process took years to complete. However, the new law limits sales, purchases, mortgages, and formation of condominiums on properties that have not been demarcated by putting this requirement that the property is demarcated (deslinde) as the paramount requirement. `Learn More <https://www.selectcaribbean.com/deslinde-process/>`__


Easement
~~~~~~~~~~~~

An easement is a legal right benefiting property or a piece of land (known as the dominant land) that is enjoyed over another piece of land owned by somebody else (servient land). ... It is a right over land belonging to someone else, but it is not a right to possession or even joint use of the land. `Learn More <https://bateswells.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/bwb-pu-easements-oct13-pdf.pdf>`__


Annexures
~~~~~~~~~~~~

A suppliment or appendix to a written document. An annexure is an addition to something, often to a document. When used generally to simply mean something added, annexure is interchangeable with annex. More commonly used in Britain and India, where it often specifically refers to an addition to an official document.
